1.what is container?
ANS. Container is an isolated environment for deploying applications along with application code,runtime and other dependencies like libraries and packages

2.What is container engine?
ANS. Container engine is the main component in contaienr world.
	it manages the resources of the host operating system and helps in managing containers like creating,starting,stopping and deleting of contaienrs.

3.How the container engine will run containers?
ANS. The container engine communicates with the host operating system to allocate resources, such as memory and CPU, for each container
     The container engine pulls a container image from a registry,and creates a new container from the image.
     The container engine launches the container and starts its process
     The container engine provides a communication channel between the containers and the host operating system, allowing the containers to access resources and services from the host.


4.What is image?
ANS.executable package that includes everything needed to run a piece of software, including the code, runtime, libraries, environment variables, and system tools


5.what is network?
ANS. network is gorup of two or more devices connected together to share resources.

6.Why we need network?
ANS. Network is the essential component while devices communicating with each other and it also provides security

7.what is pvm?
ANS. PVM stands for Python Virtual machine, it the component of python software and it is responsible for executing python code 
     and it consits of so many libraries which helps in executing the code.

8.which python flavour you are using?
ANS..Cpython 
    to know which flavour you are using

import sys
print(sys.implementation.name)

9.How the containers can communicate with other?

ANS. whenever we run containers , these will be added into the default bridge network so that all the containers can communicate with other
    but if u want to restrict one container from communicating with other containers
  we can a create a user defined network and we can add whatever the containers we want into that network

 to create a own network using docker engine

 docker network create <network_name>

to add a particular container into that network, use --net=<network_name> while running the container.

10.What are namespace and cgroups?
ANS. Namespaces provide a mechanism for creating isolated environments,Each namespace provides a separate view of system resources, such as network interfaces, process IDs, and file systems
     This isolation helps to ensure that containers do not interfere with each other or with the host operating system

Cgroups: cgroups provides control over system resources such as CPU, memory, and I/O bandwidth. Container engines use cgroups to limit and control the resources available to containers
         Together, namespaces and control groups provide the foundation for the isolation and resource management features of container engines, allowing multiple containers to run on a single host while ensuring that they are isolated and have access only to the resources they are allocated.


11.What is virtualization?
ANS. Virtualization is the creation of a virtual version of something, such as a virtual computer, operating system, storage device, or network resources
	The main goal of virtualization is to allow multiple virtual resources to share the same physical resources,
	
12.What is subnet?
ANS. subnet is a small network with in a large network and are useful for controlling network traffic
	Each subnet has its own unique IP address range and is identified by a subnet mask


13.What is Gateway?

ANS. Gateway acts as a entry and exit point for network traffic
   The gateway is responsible for routing traffic between the network and the Internet
	The gateway acts as a bridge between different networks, and it allows traffic to flow between them


For example, if you create a Docker network with a subnet of 192.168.0.0/16 and a gateway of 192.168.0.1, 
this means that IP addresses in the range of 192.168.0.0 to 192.168.255.255 are available for assignment to containers within the network, 
and the gateway at IP address 192.168.0.1 is the default route for network traffic.
 

14. What is subnet mask?
A subnet mask is a 32-bit number used to divide an IP address into two parts
 1.Network address
2.host address

The subnet mask is used to define the size of a subnet and to determine which portion of an IP address belongs to the network address 
	and which portion belongs to the host address.

15.what is CIDR notation?

ANS. CIDR- Classless-inter-Domain-Route  notation is a compact representation of an IP address and its associated network mask. 
It is used to represent the size of a subnet in terms of the number of bits that are used to represent the network portion of an IP address.



16. What is 32-bit and 64-bit systems?
ANS. These terms refers to describe architecture of CPU, and it refers to the size of the memory addresses it can generate. 
  32 bit syste can address only 32 bit addresses,This means that a 32-bit CPU can access a maximum of 4GB of memory.

A 64-bit CPU, on the other hand, can handle data values and memory addresses that are represented by 64 bits. 
This means that a 64-bit CPU can access a much larger amount of memory, typically in the range of several terabytes.

